Add Blog for safety-of-methods-for-numeric-primitive-types - 2024-12-02 (#51)
model-checking/kani-verifier-blog: _posts/2024-12-02-safety-of-methods-for-numeric-primitive-types.md

---
title: Safety of Methods for Numeric Primitive Types
layout: post
---

> Authors : Rajath M Kotyal, Yen-Yun Wu, Lanfei Ma, Junfeng Jin

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Authors: Rajath M Kotyal, Yen-Yun Wu, Lanfei Ma, Junfeng Jin
```

Reviewer 2: fixed

   - Avoid triggering undefined behavior in cases where the preconditions were violated.

2. **Writing Verification Harnesses**: We developed Kani proof harnesses for each unsafe method by:
   - Generating inputs that satisfy the required safety preconditions.
   - Invoking the methods within an `unsafe` block to verify their correctness and safety under the defined conditions.

3. **Using Macros for Code Generation**: To efficiently handle the large number of methods and types that required verification, we utilized Rust macros. These macros automated the generation of proof harnesses, reducing redundancy and improving maintainability.

4. **Handling Large Input Spaces**: For methods with large input spaces (e.g., `unchecked_mul` for 64-bit integers), we made the verification process more tractable by:
   - Introducing assumptions to limit the range of inputs.
   - Focusing on specific edge cases (e.g., maximum values, zero, and boundary conditions) that are most likely to cause overflow or underflow.

We will walk through each part with examples from the Unsafe Integer Methods part of the challenge.

### 1. Specifying Safety Preconditions

> ```rust

Reviewer: I think it would make for slightly nicer reading if there were one or two sentences of text between the heading and the example. Such text should explain what the source code that follows will exemplify.

Reviewer 2: fixed

#[requires(!self.overflowing_add(rhs).1)]
pub const unsafe fn unchecked_add(self, rhs: Self) -> Self {
    assert_unsafe_precondition!(
        check_language_ub,
        concat!(stringify!($SelfT), "::unchecked_add cannot overflow"),
        (
            lhs: $SelfT = self,
            rhs: $SelfT = rhs,
        ) => !lhs.overflowing_add(rhs).1,
    );

    // SAFETY: The caller guarantees that the preconditions are met.
    unsafe {
        intrinsics::unchecked_add(self, rhs)
    }
}
```

> Here, the ```#[requires]``` attribute is used to specify that `unchecked_add` requires the addition to not overflow. This ensures that the function operates within defined behavior when called in an unsafe context. While we directly leveraged the existing precondition in `unchecked_add`, not every function has an explicit precondition check. Still, we can write preconditions for unsafe functions based on the `SAFETY` section in the official documentation or the `SAFETY` comments in the source code.

Reviewer: Would you mind adding a note on what already was there before you arrived and what it is that you added, i.e., really just the `requires` clause, but I don't think that is as obvious to other potential readers.

> The same logic applies to the postconditions (`#[ensure]`) of a function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The same logic applies to the postconditions (`#[ensures]`) of a function.
```

Reviewer: Also, I don't know what "the same logic" really means here?

### 2. Generating Verification Harnesses
We created macros to generate verification harnesses for each method and type. For example, to generate harnesses for ```unchecked_add```:
```rust
#[cfg(kani)]
mod verify {
    use super::*;

    macro_rules! generate_unchecked_math_harness {
        ($type:ty, $method:ident, $harness_name:ident) => {
            #[kani::proof_for_contract($type::$method)]
            pub fn $harness_name() {
                let num1: $type = kani::any::<$type>();
                let num2: $type = kani::any::<$type>();

                unsafe {
                    num1.$method(num2);
                }
            }
        }
    }

    generate_unchecked_math_harness!(i8, unchecked_add, unchecked_add_i8);
    generate_unchecked_math_harness!(i16, unchecked_add, unchecked_add_i16);
    // ... Repeat for other integer types
}
```
The harness contains several parts:

> - Symbolic values: These values (```num1``` and ```num2```) are generated by Kani using ```kani::any```.

Reviewer: Perhaps add a reference to https://model-checking.github.io/kani/tutorial-nondeterministic-variables.html.

- Unsafe Execution: The invocation of ```unchecked_add``` within an unsafe block for verification.

### 3. Handling Large Input Spaces
For methods like ```unchecked_mul```, verifying over the entire input space is infeasible due to the exponential number of possibilities. We addressed this by partitioning the input space into intervals:
```rust
generate_unchecked_mul_intervals!(i32, unchecked_mul,
    unchecked_mul_i32_small, -10i32, 10i32,
    unchecked_mul_i32_large_pos, i32::MAX - 1000i32, i32::MAX,
    unchecked_mul_i32_large_neg, i32::MIN, i32::MIN + 1000i32,
    unchecked_mul_i32_edge_pos, i32::MAX / 2, i32::MAX,
    unchecked_mul_i32_edge_neg, i32::MIN, i32::MIN / 2
);
```
By focusing on critical ranges, we ensured that the verification process remained tractable while still covering important cases where overflows are likely to occur.

The critical ranges include :
- Small Ranges Near Zero: Includes values around 0, where behavior transitions (e.g., sign changes) are more likely to expose issues like underflows.

> - Boundary Checks: Covers the maximum and minimum values `(i32::MAX, i32::MIN)`, ensuring the method handles edge cases correctly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Boundary Checks: Covers the maximum and minimum values (`i32::MAX`, `i32::MIN`), ensuring the method handles edge cases correctly.
```
to avoid the impression that you are talking about an (open) interval.

- Halfway Points: For instance, from `i32::MAX / 2` to `i32::MAX`. This helps validate behavior at large magnitudes. For types like i64 and larger, where state space `(2^64 x 2^64 = ~2^128 combinations)` becomes infeasible, narrower ranges or sampling are critical.

## Part 2: Verifying Safe APIs
We also verified safe APIs that internally use the previously verified unsafe methods through the above workflow. 

Why Verify Safe APIs?

> Safe APIs, like widening_mul, leverage internally unsafe operations (e.g., unchecked_mul). Even though marked safe, their reliability still depends on the correctness of these underlying operations. Verifying them ensures no overflow occurs in the wider type used internally. When verifying safe APIs like widening_mul, we consider the underlying unsafe functions and target specific input intervals to ensure correctness across critical ranges, balancing thoroughness with practicality.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Safe APIs, like `widening_mul`, leverage internally unsafe operations (e.g., `unchecked_mul`). Even though marked safe, their reliability still depends on the correctness of these underlying operations. Verifying them ensures no overflow occurs in the wider type used internally. When verifying safe APIs like `widening_mul`, we consider the underlying unsafe functions and target specific input intervals to ensure correctness across critical ranges, balancing thoroughness with practicality.
```

---
title: Safety of Methods for Numeric Primitive Types
layout: post
---
Authors: [Rajath M Kotyal](https://github.com/rajathkotyal), [Yen-Yun Wu](https://github.com/Yenyun035), [Lanfei Ma](https://github.com/lanfeima), [Junfeng Jin](https://github.com/MWDZ)

In this blog post, we discuss how we verified the absence of arithmetic overflow/underflow and undefined behavior in various unsafe methods provided by Rust's numeric primitive types, given that their safety preconditions are satisfied.

## Introduction
Ensuring the correctness and safety of numeric operations is crucial for developing reliable systems. In high-performance applications, numeric operations often require bypassing checks to maximize efficiency. However, ensuring the safety of these methods under their stated preconditions is critical to preventing undefined behavior.

> In the past 3 months, we have rigorously analyzed unsafe methods provided by Rust's numeric primitive types, such as `unchecked_add` and `unchecked_sub`, which omit runtime checks for overflow and underflow, using formal verification techniques.

Reviewer: Perhaps use a year/month notation instead of "past 3 months" as future readers will struggle to see what exactly this refers to.

2. Safe API Verification: Verify safe APIs that leverage the unsafe integer methods from Part 1, such as `wrapping_shl`, `wrapping_shr`, `widening_mul`, and `carrying_mul`.
3. Float to Integer Conversion: Verify the absence of undefined behavior in `to_int_unchecked` for all floating-point types: `f16`, `f32`, `f64`, and `f128`.

In addition to verifying the methods under their specified safety preconditions, we needed to ensure the absence of specific [undefined behaviors](https://github.com/rust-lang/reference/blob/142b2ed77d33f37a9973772bd95e6144ed9dce43/src/behavior-considered-undefined.md):
- Invoking undefined behavior via compiler intrinsics.
- Reading from uninitialized memory.
- Mutating immutable bytes.
- Producing an invalid value.

## Approach
To tackle this challenge, we utilized [Kani](https://github.com/model-checking/kani)'s verification capabilities to write proof harnesses for unsafe methods. Our strategy involved:
1. **Specifying Safety Preconditions**: To ensure the methods behaved correctly, we explicitly specified safety preconditions in the code. These preconditions were used to:

>    - Guide Kani input generation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - Guide Kani's input generation.
```

        concat!(stringify!($SelfT), "::unchecked_add cannot overflow"),
        (
            lhs: $SelfT = self,
            rhs: $SelfT = rhs,
        ) => !lhs.overflowing_add(rhs).1,
    );

    // SAFETY: The caller guarantees that the preconditions are met.
    unsafe {
        intrinsics::unchecked_add(self, rhs)
    }
}
```
Here, we added the `#[requires]` attribute above the existing source code to specify that `unchecked_add` requires the addition to not overflow. This ensures the function operates within its intended behavior when called in an unsafe context. While we directly utilized the existing precondition in `unchecked_add`, not every function includes an explicit precondition check. However, we can define preconditions for unsafe functions based on the `SAFETY` section in the official documentation or the explanatory `SAFETY` comments in the source code.

Similarly, postconditions (`#[ensures]`) serve to define the guarantees that a function must uphold after its execution. These ensure the function output or state adheres to the intended expectations, providing an additional safeguard for correctness.

### 2. Generating Verification Harnesses

> Sometimes, we need to verify a method for multiple types, which often requires writing numerous harnesses. However, these harnesses usually share the same logic, which makes it inefficient and error-prone to copy and paste similar code repeatedly. This is where [**macros**](https://doc.rust-lang.org/book/ch19-06-macros.html) come in handy. As an improvement, we can define a single reusable template that dynamically generates harnesses for different types using macro, which reduces redundancy and improves maintainability.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sometimes, we need to verify a method for multiple types, which often requires writing numerous harnesses. However, these harnesses usually share the same logic, which makes it inefficient and error-prone to copy and paste similar code repeatedly. This is where [**macros**](https://doc.rust-lang.org/book/ch19-06-macros.html) come in handy. As a further improvement, we can define a single reusable template that dynamically generates harnesses for different types using a single macro, which reduces redundancy and improves maintainability.
```

    // `type`: Integer type
    // `method`: Method to verify
    // `harness_name`: A unique identifier for a harness
    macro_rules! generate_unchecked_math_harness {
        ($type:ty, $method:ident, $harness_name:ident) => {
            #[kani::proof_for_contract($type::$method)]
            pub fn $harness_name() {
                let num1: $type = kani::any::<$type>(); // (1)
                let num2: $type = kani::any::<$type>(); // (1)
                // (2)
                unsafe { num1.$method(num2); } // (3)
                // (4)
            }
        }
    }

    generate_unchecked_math_harness!(i8, unchecked_add, unchecked_add_i8);
    generate_unchecked_math_harness!(i16, unchecked_add, unchecked_add_i16);
    // ... Repeat for other integer types (32/64/128-bit/architecture-dependent signed/unsigned integers)
}
```
A harness contains several parts:
1. [**Symbolic values**](https://model-checking.github.io/kani/tutorial-nondeterministic-variables.html): `num1` and `num2` are symbolic values generated using `kani::any()`. Kani employs symbolic execution to explore a wide range of input possibilities systematically.

> 2. **Assumptions**: With `#[kani::proof_for_contract]` annotation, Kani automatically inserts `kani::assume()` before the unsafe function call. It ensures that all generated values respect the preconditions of `unchecked_add`. If there are additional assumptions not captured by function contracts, you can specify them manually as well. You can find further details in [Kani official RFC for function contracts](https://github.com/model-checking/kani/blob/main/rfc/src/rfcs/0009-function-contracts.md#user-experience).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. **Assumptions**: With a `#[kani::proof_for_contract]` annotation, Kani automatically inserts `kani::assume()` before the unsafe function call. It ensures that all generated values respect the preconditions of `unchecked_add`. If there are additional assumptions not captured by function contracts, you can specify them manually as well. You can find further details in [Kani's official RFC for function contracts](https://github.com/model-checking/kani/blob/main/rfc/src/rfcs/0009-function-contracts.md#user-experience).
```

            pub fn $harness_name() {
                let num1: $type = kani::any::<$type>();
                let num2: $type = kani::any::<$type>();

                // Improve unchecked_mul performance for {32, 64, 128}-bit integer types
                // by adding upper and lower limits for inputs
                kani::assume(num1 >= $min && num1 <= $max);
                kani::assume(num2 >= $min && num2 <= $max);

                // Precondition: multiplication does not overflow
                // Kani automatically inserts: `kani::assume(!num1.overflowing_mul(num2).1)`
                unsafe { num1.$method(num2); }
            }
        )+
    }
}

generate_unchecked_mul_intervals!(i32, unchecked_mul,
    unchecked_mul_i32_small, -10i32, 10i32,                    // Cases near zero
    unchecked_mul_i32_large_pos, i32::MAX - 1000i32, i32::MAX, // maximum corner cases
    unchecked_mul_i32_large_neg, i32::MIN, i32::MIN + 1000i32, // minimum corner cases
    unchecked_mul_i32_edge_pos, i32::MAX / 2, i32::MAX,        // wide range towards maximum
    unchecked_mul_i32_edge_neg, i32::MIN, i32::MIN / 2         // wide range towards maximum
);
```

> By focusing on critical ranges, we ensured that the verification process remained tractable while still covering important cases where overflows are likely to occur. The critical ranges include :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By focusing on critical ranges, we ensured that the verification process remained tractable while still covering important cases where overflows are likely to occur. The critical ranges include:
```

---
title: Safety of Methods for Numeric Primitive Types
layout: post
---
Authors: [Rajath M Kotyal](https://github.com/rajathkotyal), [Yen-Yun Wu](https://github.com/Yenyun035), [Lanfei Ma](https://github.com/lanfeima), [Junfeng Jin](https://github.com/MWDZ)

In this blog post, we discuss how we verified the absence of arithmetic overflow/underflow and undefined behavior in various unsafe methods provided by Rust's numeric primitive types, given that their safety preconditions are satisfied.

## Introduction

> Ensuring the correctness and safety of numeric operations is crucial for developing reliable systems. In high-performance applications, numeric operations often require bypassing checks to maximize efficiency. However, ensuring the safety of these methods under their stated preconditions is critical to preventing undefined behavior.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Ensuring the correctness and safety of numeric operations is crucial for developing reliable systems. In high-performance applications, numeric operations often bypass checks to maximize efficiency. However, ensuring the safety of these methods under their stated preconditions is critical to preventing undefined behavior.
```
Nit: I think saying they _have_ to bypass checks to maximize performance is a bit strong, but I agree that they often _do_.

Author: Yes I agree it sounds stronger as well. updated

   - Avoid triggering undefined behavior in cases where the preconditions were violated.
2. **Writing Verification Harnesses**: We developed Kani proof harnesses for each unsafe method by:

   - Generating inputs that satisfy the required safety preconditions.
   - Invoking the methods within an `unsafe` block to verify their correctness and safety under the defined conditions.
3. **Using Macros for Code Generation**: To efficiently handle the large number of methods and types that required verification, we utilized Rust macros. These macros automated the generation of proof harnesses, reducing redundancy and improving maintainability.
4. **Handling Large Input Spaces**: For methods with large input spaces (e.g., `unchecked_mul` for 64-bit integers), we made the verification process more tractable by:

   - Introducing assumptions to limit the range of inputs.
   - Focusing on specific edge cases (e.g., maximum values, zero, and boundary conditions) that are most likely to cause overflow or underflow.

We will walk through each part with examples from the Unsafe Integer Methods part of the challenge.

## Implementation

### 1. Specifying Safety Preconditions

> The following code demonstrates how to specify safety preconditions for an unsafe numeric method `unchecked_add` using [**function contracts**](https://github.com/model-checking/kani/blob/main/rfc/src/rfcs/0009-function-contracts.md) to ensure correct behavior under the stated conditions.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The following code demonstrates how to specify safety preconditions for an unsafe numeric method `unchecked_add` using [**function contracts**](https://model-checking.github.io/kani/reference/experimental/contracts.html) to ensure correct behavior under the stated conditions.
```
Let's use our documentation from our book instead of the RFC.

    // `type`: Integer type
    // `method`: Method to verify
    // `harness_name`: A unique identifier for a harness
    macro_rules! generate_unchecked_math_harness {
        ($type:ty, $method:ident, $harness_name:ident) => {
            #[kani::proof_for_contract($type::$method)]
            pub fn $harness_name() {
                let num1: $type = kani::any::<$type>(); // (1)
                let num2: $type = kani::any::<$type>(); // (1)
                // (2)
                unsafe { num1.$method(num2); } // (3)
                // (4)
            }
        }
    }

    generate_unchecked_math_harness!(i8, unchecked_add, unchecked_add_i8);
    generate_unchecked_math_harness!(i16, unchecked_add, unchecked_add_i16);
    // ... Repeat for other integer types (32/64/128-bit/architecture-dependent signed/unsigned integers)
}
```

A harness contains several parts:

1. [**Symbolic values**](https://model-checking.github.io/kani/tutorial-nondeterministic-variables.html): `num1` and `num2` are symbolic values generated using `kani::any()`. Kani employs symbolic execution to explore a wide range of input possibilities systematically.

> 2. **Assumptions**: With a `#[kani::proof_for_contract]` annotation, Kani automatically inserts `kani::assume()` before the unsafe function call. It ensures that all generated values respect the preconditions of `unchecked_add`. If there are additional assumptions not captured by function contracts, you can specify them manually as well. You can find further details in [Kani&#39;s official RFC for function contracts](https://github.com/model-checking/kani/blob/main/rfc/src/rfcs/0009-function-contracts.md#user-experience).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2. **Assumptions**: Kani expands `#[requires(precondition)]` to `kani::assume(precondition)` and inserts this assumption in the harness before the unsafe function call. This assumption ensures that all generated values respect the preconditions of `unchecked_add`. If there are additional assumptions not captured by function contracts, you can specify them manually as well. You can find further details in [Kani's blog about function contracts](https://model-checking.github.io/kani-verifier-blog/2024/01/29/function-contracts.html).
```
The presence of the `[kani::proof_for_contract]` does not cause `kani::assume()` to be inserted--if there are no preconditions, there are no assumptions either. The `#[kani::proof_for_contract]` just instructs Kani to check that the postconditions hold given zero or more preconditions.

Author: Ah! Thank you for pointing that. Update

3. **Unsafe Execution**: The invocation of `unchecked_add` within an unsafe block for verification. [`unsafe`](https://doc.rust-lang.org/book/ch19-01-unsafe-rust.html) code blocks enable unsafe Rust features, such as calling unsafe functions or dereferencing raw pointers.

> 4. **Assertions**: Similar to assumptions, with `#[kani::proof_for_contract]` annotation, Kani automatically inserts `kani::assert()` after the unsafe function call. It checks if the function behaves as expected (e.g. returning an expected result) or if certain safety invariants hold after function call.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
4. **Assertions**: Similar to assumptions, Kani expands `#[ensures(postcondition)]`to `kani::assert(postcondition)` and inserts in the harness after the unsafe function call. This assertion checks if the function behaves as expected (e.g. returning an expected result) or if certain safety invariants hold after function call.
```

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To summarize: Kani proves that a function's contract holds by assuming preconditions, executing the function under those assumptions, then asserting that the postcondition holds. Kani also checks that the unsafe code does not cause undefined behavior along the way.
```
Feel free to rephrase this--I just think it would be good to have a concluding sentence about what the reader should take away from this section.

Author: Thanks! Updated with some minor reformatting

### 3. Handling Large Input Spaces

> For methods like `unchecked_mul`, verifying over the entire input space is infeasible due to the exponential number of possibilities. To improve the performance, we partitioned the input space into intervals.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For methods like `unchecked_mul`, verifying the entire input space is infeasible due to the exponential number of possibilities. To improve the performance, we partitioned the input space into intervals.
```

// `floatType`: Type of float to convert (f16, f32, f64, or f128)
// `intType`: Target integer type
// `harness_name`: A unique identifier of a harness
macro_rules! generate_to_int_unchecked_harness {
    ($floatType:ty, $($intType:ty, $harness_name:ident),+) => {
        $(
            #[kani::proof_for_contract($floatType::to_int_unchecked)]
            pub fn $harness_name() {
                let num: $floatType = kani::any();
                // Kani automatically inserts preconditions (`kani::assume()`) here
                let result = unsafe { num.to_int_unchecked::<$intType>() };
                assert_eq!(result, num as $intType); // Correctness check
            }
        )+
    }
}

generate_to_int_unchecked_harness!(f32,
    i8, to_int_unchecked_f32_i8,
    i16, to_int_unchecked_f32_i16,
    // ... Repeat for other integer types
);
```

However, when we ran Kani on our harnesses, the verification failed:

```
...
Failed Checks: float_to_int_unchecked is not currently supported by Kani.
...
Summary:
Verification failed for - num::verify::checked_to_int_unchecked_f32
Complete - 0 successfully verified harnesses, 1 failures, 1 total.
```

> From the verification report, we realized that Kani did not support `float_to_int_unchecked` which is internally called by `to_int_unchecked`. We filed a [Kani feature request for `float_to_int_unchecked`](https://github.com/model-checking/kani/issues/3629) immediately, and `float_to_int_unchecked` was introduced shortly [2].

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
From the verification report, we realized that Kani did not support `float_to_int_unchecked` which is internally called by `to_int_unchecked`. We filed a [Kani feature request for `float_to_int_unchecked`](https://github.com/model-checking/kani/issues/3629) immediately, and `float_to_int_unchecked` was introduced shortly after [2].
```

To address these issues, we utilized the `float_to_int_in_range` method to account for these issues without compromising the rigor of our checks.

### Addressing Tool Limitations

While Kani provided robust verification capabilities, certain limitations, such as the initial lack of support for `float_to_int_unchecked`, required creative workarounds and feature requests. Collaborating with the Kani community and iterating on our verification approach highlighted the importance of evolving tools to meet the demands of formal verification for complex systems.

## Conclusion

This [challenge](https://model-checking.github.io/verify-rust-std/challenges/0011-floats-ints.html) provided valuable insights into the process of formally verifying unsafe methods in Rust's standard library. By leveraging Kani and carefully designing our verification harnesses, we successfully demonstrated the safety of numerous methods across various numeric primitive types.

Our work contributes to the robustness of Rust's standard library and highlights the importance of formal verification tools in modern software development.

> We hope this post provides valuable insights into the verification process of unsafe numeric methods in Rust. If you're interested in formal verification or Rust programming, we encourage you to explore [Kani](https://github.com/model-checking/kani) and contribute to its ongoing development.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We hope this post provides valuable insights into the verification process of unsafe numeric methods in Rust. If you're interested in formal verification or Rust programming, we encourage you to explore [Kani](https://github.com/model-checking/kani) and contribute to its ongoing development, or to [contribute to the standard library verification effort yourself](https://github.com/model-checking/verify-rust-std).
```

2. **Assumptions**: Kani expands `#[requires(precondition)]` to `kani::assume(precondition)` and inserts this assumption in the harness before the unsafe function call. This assumption ensures that all generated values respect the preconditions of `unchecked_add`. If there are additional assumptions not captured by function contracts, you can specify them manually as well. You can find further details in [Kani's blog about function contracts](https://model-checking.github.io/kani-verifier-blog/2024/01/29/function-contracts.html).
3. **Unsafe Execution**: The invocation of `unchecked_add` within an unsafe block for verification. [`unsafe`](https://doc.rust-lang.org/book/ch19-01-unsafe-rust.html) code blocks enable unsafe Rust features, such as calling unsafe functions or dereferencing raw pointers.
4. **Assertions**: Similar to assumptions, Kani expands `#[ensures(postcondition)]`to `kani::assert(postcondition)` and inserts in the harness after the unsafe function call. This assertion checks if the function behaves as expected (e.g. returning an expected result) or if certain safety invariants hold after function call.

> **Summary**: Kani verifies a function's contract by assuming the specified preconditions, executing the function within these constraints, and asserting that the postconditions are satisfied. During this process, Kani ensures that the unsafe code adheres to Rust's safety guarantees and does not trigger undefined behavior.

Author: @carolynzech requesting review on the summary part.

Reviewer 3: Looks great!

```rust
// Preconditions
// - Input float cannot be NaN
// - Input float cannot be infinite
// - Input float must be representable in the target integer type
// `is_finite` handles the first two cases
#[requires(self.is_finite() && float_to_int_in_range::<Self, Int>(self))]
pub unsafe fn to_int_unchecked<Int>(self) -> Int where Self: FloatToInt<Int> { /* Implementation */ }
```

After running Kani again, all harnesses passed the verification checks. By this point, we completed the challenge.

## Challenges Encountered & Lessons Learned

Lastly, we summarized the main challenges we encountered throughout the course and our reflections.

### Handling Exponential Input Spaces

Verifying methods with large integer types was challenging due to the vast number of possible input combinations. To manage this, we implemented:

- Partitioning Input Ranges: We targeted critical intervals where overflows are most likely, such as boundary values and mid-range points.
- Using Assumptions: Leveraging `kani::assume`, we constrained inputs to these manageable ranges, ensuring comprehensive coverage of important cases without overwhelming the verifier.

> - Rationale: According to Randy E. Bryant's "Graph-Based Algorithms for Boolean Function Manipulation" (1986), the Boolean function representing all outputs of a multiplier as a BDD is exponential in the size of the operands. While a more compact representation can be achieved in CNF, it remains quadratic in the size of the operands. This complexity poses significant challenges for SAT solvers. Interestingly, this difficulty has practical implications: if solving such problems were more efficient, we could feasibly perform number factorization and thereby compromise some of today's cryptographic algorithms.

Author: Added this rationale behind the complexity involved in SAT solvers for handling larger input space.

> - Rationale: According to Randy E. Bryant's "Graph-Based Algorithms for Boolean Function Manipulation" (1986), the Boolean function representing all outputs of a multiplier as a BDD is exponential in the size of the operands. While a more compact representation can be achieved in CNF, it remains quadratic in the size of the operands. This complexity poses significant challenges for SAT solvers. Interestingly, this difficulty has practical implications: if solving such problems were more efficient, we could feasibly perform number factorization and thereby compromise some of today's cryptographic algorithms.

Author: Added this rationale behind the complexity involved in SAT solvers for handling larger input space.
